Services payment - guide (#158)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: builders/manage/dapp/services-payment.md

---
title: Services Payment
description: Appchains deployed through Tanssi benefit from block production services provided by a set of node operators, which are compensated with Tanssi tokens.
---

# Services Payment

## Introduction {: #introduction }

As presented in the [Block Production as a Service](/learn/tanssi/technical-features#services-payments){target=_\blank} article, there are two main costs associated that the appchain governor must cover: 

> - **Block producers assignment** - it is a fee that must be paid every time the Tanssi protocol assigns block producers, which happens once per session
> - **Block production** - is the cost to pay for each block that is produced on the appchain's behalf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Block producers assignment** - for the assignment of block producers by the Tanssi protocol, which happens once per session
- **Block production** - for each block that is produced on the appchain's behalf
```

## Checking Prerequisites {: #checking-prerequisites }

For the examples in this guide, you will need to have the following:

- A Tanssi appchain (Snap or Dedicated)
- The account you used when registering the appchain, imported in any of the [supported wallets](/builders/deploy/dapp/#supported-wallets){target=\_blank}

If you're unsure what your registration account is, you can query it directly from the Tanssi orchestrator chain, which keeps records of every registered appchain. To do so, head to the **Chain state** section on the Polkadot.js Apps connected to the orchestrator chain for [snap appchains](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss://fraa-flashbox-2607-rpc.a.stagenet.tanssi.network#/chainstate){target=\_blank} or [dedicated appchains](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Ffraa-dancebox-rpc.a.dancebox.tanssi.network#/chainstate){target=\_blank}, and take the following steps:

1. Select the **registrar** storage module
2. Select **registrarDeposit**
3. Insert you appchain id
4. Press **+** icon

You'll see the registration account at the bottom.

> ![Locating your registration account](/images/builders/manage/dapp/services-payment/services-payment-1.webp)

Reviewer 2: Let's use Dancebox for this just because it has a better branding (colors, logo, etc)

We should always use Dancebox and Dancebox EVM chain if needed

## Topping-Up Your Appchain's Credits {: #topping-up }

> Following a pay-as-you-go model, the appchains must have funds allocated to pay for the services, which, in time, will be deducted by the Tanssi protocol upon every session change or every block produced.

Reviewer: When you say every session change or every block? This is every session for the cost of block producer assignment and every block for the cost of producing the block?

Author: It came out wrong, but that's what I meant!

> !!! note

Reviewer 2: This has to be in a note?

Author: Revisiting this paragraph, I think it sets the importance of having enough funds just before explaining how to check & refill the credits. I wouldn't put it in a note.
But, I would remove the next lines about how the 20% goes to the treasury, and move it to the payment article in the learn section. wdyt?

>     Tanssi reserves 20% of the payments received for the protocol's treasury, and the remainder is burnt.

Reviewer: Where is this configured in the source code?

Author: https://github.com/moondance-labs/tanssi/blob/2fb1c0813d52c5c603a86ae46fec01545840e058/runtime/dancebox/src/lib.rs#L445

Reviewer 2: We could add this in a Tab so that is future proof for other networks (Mainnet etc)

You can check your appchain's current balance and top it up using the Tanssi dApp. To do so, head to the [Tanssi dApp](https://apps.tanssi.network/){target=\_blank} and connect the appchain's registration account to the dApp. The site will display a card showing your appchain status. This card includes the projected liveness forecast underneath the **Block Production** section and the **Top Up** button.

> ![Top-up action button in the dApp](/images/builders/manage/dapp/services-payment/services-payment-2.webp)

Reviewer 2: Delete de LFD banner at the top and use the Demo EVM appchain as always

IF you require two arrows to show something an image you should use the numbering system

Clicking on the **Top Up** button displays a sidebar where the following information can be seen:

- **Current balance** - the current balance allocated for the appchain's block production service
- **Available balance** - the balance available in the appchain's registration account, which is connected to the dApp
- **Current cost** - current cost per block producer's assignment and cost per block
- **Projected forecast** - the estimated day when the appchain runs out of funds and stops being served

To extend the appchain's projected runway, take the following actions:

1. Insert the amount of tokens to buy block production services

> 2. Top Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click **Top Up**
```

![Top-up sidebar](/images/builders/manage/dapp/services-payment/services-payment-3.webp)

You will be asked to sign the transaction, and after it's gone through, your appchain will benefit from an extended horizon of liveness.

!!! warning

>     If your appchain doesn't have enough funds to cover the block producer's assignment and one session worth of blocks, it will stall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If your appchain doesn't have enough funds to cover the block producer's assignment and one session's worth of blocks, it will stall.
```
